Missouri's new streamlined
Constitution, adopted three
weeks ago, has an interesting
innovation in its bill of rights.
Its declaration concerning free-
dom of speech has this lan-
guage:
"No law shall be passed im-
pairing the freedom of speech,
no matter by what means com-
municated; that every person
shall be free to say, write or
publish, or otherwise communi-
cate whatever he will on any
subject, being responsible for
all abuses of that liberty."
KEEPING UP
In this statement the words
"no matter by what means com-
municated" and "or otherwise
communicate" were included to
cover the motion picture and
the radio, newcomers in the
field of communication during
the 70 years since Missouri
adopted its old charter of lib-
erty. Thus, the march of liberty
keeps pace with the march of
invention.
The motion-picture people un-
der the leadership of William
Harrison Hays, whose champion-
ship of free speech goes back
to his days as Postmaster Gen-
eral 24 years ago, have been ac-
tive in efforts to get recogni-
tion for their medium, along
with the press and the public
platform.
GREATLY INDEBTED
The price control bill passed
in 1012 by Congress extends ex-
emption from licensing, an in-
dispensable ingredient of free-
dom, to "newspapers, periodi-
cals, books, or other printed or
written matter, or motion pic-
tures, or as a condition of sell-
ing radio time."
These new agencies of public
expression, the motion picture
and the radio, are, of course,
greatly indebted to those who
have battled for the freedom of
the press over the centuries.
They must, as they join the vet-
eran team, observe those rules
of self-restraint and judgment
which are the price of liberty.
A GREATER EVIL
The press has never claimed
perfection, but it has convinced
the public that the evil of cen-
sorship is greater than any
minor violations of sense, truth
or taste. It must be so with the
newcomers.
The inclusion of a guarantee
of this sort in a State consti-
tution is not the end of the
story. Vigilance is always in
order, and in wartime the ut-
most vigilance is required.
After the war it is easier to
muffle the war drums than the
bureaucrats. Freedom usually
suffers a severe war hangover
of government restrictions. The
motion picture and the radio
under the new Constitution of
Missouri will still be subject to
law. But they now have a form
of recognition.
IT MAY WELL SPREAD
Missouri has been a constitu-
tional innovator before. The
1875 Constitution which now
goes to the morgue blazed a dis-
tinguished trail. It first fixed in
a State constitution the princi-
ple of home rule for cities. And
it did that in a period when
selfish and often corrupt Legis-
latures were ruthlessly exploit-
ing new and growing cities.
The Missouri innovation of home
rule spread throughout the na-
tion and, in a sense, became the
established order of the land.
There are many other impor-
tant improvements in the new
Missouri Constitution, but this
extension of freedom, at a mo-
ment when freedom is chal-
lenged everywhere is an encour-
aging sign. It may well spread
to other States.
Horrors!
New York Sun
A Japanese radio commentator
speaks with horror of American
wrestlers in a subtle attempt to
ingratiate himself with the
American public.