President Truman's sugges
tion to the French press that it
mend its manners was a whole
some expression of a pretty
general American feeling about
liberated France. But while we
write checks with one hand, we
must make heavy drafts on our
patience with the other. The
clamor at the loan window is
getting pretty loud, but let's
continue to keep the facts
straight.
Gen, de Gaulle has been nerv.
ous ever since the liberation.
First, the impasse with Prest
dent Roosevelt. Then, a hasty
treaty with Russia. The de
Gaulle deal with Stalin seems
to have been better for Russia
than for France. Russia has
done little to improve the
French internal position. Now,
with Gen. de Gaulle's visit, we
can, with some degree of ob
jectivity, look at the future role
of France. In time the French
army can become an effective
watchdog on the western fron-
tier of Germany. It can relieve
America of part of the burden
of a long occupation. That is
a net gain for us.
Meanwhile, France is in a
precarious situation, She has
never recovered from the eco-
nomic consequences of the first
World War. Her domestic debt
consumed half of all taxes and
other state receipts. Internal
struggles to determine where
that burden should rest made
France weaker and weaker be
fore 1939.
Now the burden of debt is
four times as great as before
the war. The situation is ag-
gravated by the disruption of
transportation facilities in the
two campaigns of 1940 and
1944. Italy and Spain are un-
friendly neighbors. Some mili-
tary strength must be reserved
to watch them.
French finances are in bad
shape. A theoretical stabiliza-
tion of French currency was
brought about in England dur-
ing Gen, de Gaulle's exile there,
But that has had no important
effects since liberation. The
Germans left a tremendous in-
flation in their wake, and the
franc is now worth about one-
third its value under the Lon-
don stabilization agreement.
France needs aid in financial
reorganization from us just as
urgently as she needs a loan.
The loans she is seeking run to
about $800,000,000, and, in addi-
tion, she claims about $1,500,
000,000 now frozen in French
assets over here,
French materials for recovery
are, on the other hand, consid-
erable. Her essential strength
has been conserved far beyond
that of most European coun-
tries, She has a productive
soil, an unsurpassed luxury in-
dustry and cultural attractions,
which will bring millions in vis-
itors' money. Then there is the
colonial empire-rich, but never
well governed. And there is the
spirit of the French people--
always attractive, despite the
vagaries of her officialdom. The
tradition of freedom always
lives in France, although it
may, at times, live in the midst
of chaos.
We can and must help not
only because of French needs,
but because France can help to
stabilize Europe. But France
must help, by drastic measures,
to relieve herself of some of her
domestic debt. This will not be
easy, because the peasant and
bourgeois holders of the gov-
ernmental obligations are canny
people. France must also meas-
urably stabilize her politics.
There will be time for ideolog-
ical luxuries after her house is
in order.