Raymond Moley.
_ TRUSTEESHIP PIGEONHOLED
If the tentative proposals of
Comdr. Harold E. Stassen on
trusteeships are adopted in San
Francisco, the real decisions on
that subject will go over to a
future peace conference. For
this tentative draft sets up ma-
chinery that no country will be
compelled to use unless it so
desires. Present mandated areas
would not automatically be
transferred to the new system,
and territories wrested from Ja-
pan would not go under trustee-
ship unless a future peace con-
ference so ordered it.
This, it would seem, is not
much of a plan. Assuredly it
isn't. That's why it is the only
plan which can or should be
adopted now.
I am not sure that four or five
empires joined are more benev-
olent than those empires in-
dividually. But it may be true
that self-interest will be min-
imized by collective action.
Maybe. Perhaps it is worth try-
ing.
But in the case of strategic
islands, relative values are in-
volved. The reason we need the
Carolines and Britain needs the
Gilberts is self-defense.
There are natives on those is-
lands who may or may not be
yearning for parliamentary in-
stitutions. But, unless we as-
sume that Britain and we are
intent upon exploiting these
harmless people, the defense of
Britain and America has a prior-
ity over some form of interna-
tional inspection by China, Rus-
sia and France, in addition to an
inspection by the two nations
now concerned.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.