Sinking of Brannan Plan
Outstanding in Election
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
This election meant many
things to many men. There is
plenty of difference of opinion
about several of those things.
But one is a certainty. The
voters have decisively repu-
diated the fantastic handout
plan, that bore the name of
Secretary Brannan.
Apparently no Senatorial
candidate really supported the
plan in his campaign.
Many successful candidates
centered hot fire on the plan
with excellent results. Lucas
repudiated it and Barkley did
some fancy footwork to re-
move this burden from can-
didates. And so the plan is
gone—sunk without trace.
It was never very clear why
Brannan was appointed in the
first place. He was a lawyer
in Denver who had practiced
only six years when he began
a career as a Federal job-
holder.
*
There is no real evidence
that he had any special knowl-
edge of the immensely compli-
cated problems of agriculture.
Nor is there clear evidence
that Brannan had a great deal
to do with creating the plan
itself. It has been shown on
the floor of the Senate that
certain essentials of the plan
originated in certain radical
organizations in the North-
west. It was worked out in
detail by some of the bright
boys in the department.
Then, since it offered some-
thing for both city workers
and farmers, it appealed to
the political mind of the
President.
The plan, however, tempted
the President and the Secre-
tary to outsmart themselves.
It was altogether too compli-
cated to be understood gen-
erally. It provided so many
restrictions and possible con-
trols that it frightened the
farmers. And since it gave the
Secretary so much discretion
and potential authority, it
aroused the immediate an-
tagonism of the Farm Bureau
Federation and the Grange.
Instead of seeking a com-
promise with these powerful
organizations, the administra-
tion, swollen with confidence
after the 1948 election, went
to war with them, centering
its fire on Allan Kline. In this,
Kline has clearly prevailed.
By the beginning of the
present year, it became clear
that Brannan was anxious to
blur over the rigorous de-
tails of the plan and to rest
his case upon broad general-
ities. This was clear to this
writer when he had the for-
tune to engage in two de-
bates with Brannan, one in
Milwaukee, the other in Kan-
kakee.
It was almost impossible in
those discussions to get the
Secretary to explain his own
plan. While I claim no great
familiarity with farm eco-
nomics, I understood the
main features of the plan
and so I was compelled to
take precious minutes from
my own time to explain it in
order to demonstrate its fal-
lacies and dangers.
It was clear even then that
the whole scheme was a vote-
getting idea and that it was
somewhat doubtful whether
either the President or the
Secretary wanted to get it
passed. It was, they thought,
an ideal way to get votes in
the 1950 campaign. That idea,
it is now proved, was a great
mistake.
*
Finally, nature and the
North Koreans took a hand.
Brannan’s restrictions upon
cotton enraged Southern Con-
gressmen. Then Brannan re-
stricted cotton exports, which
made matters worse. Since a
great talking point for Candi-
date Truman in 1948 was the
low price of corn, the admini-
stration sought to lift the price
of corn this year. But since
farmers had turned in a big
way to hog raising, they were
more interested in the price
of animals than in that of corn.
Finally with the prospect of
dangerous surpluses quite dim
because of war preparations,
the entire basis of the plan is
gone. It is only a memory to
warn the President that there
are certain forces that lie be-
yond the scope of politics.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.