Texas Wants a Change Desperately
FT. WORTH—The final
verdict in Texas in the con-
test between the Truman and
anti-Truman forces in the
Democratic Party must be
written at the State conven-
tion late in May. Also, there
must be determined at the
State Republican Convention
at the same time whether the
State’s delegation to Chicago
will vote for Taft or Eisen-
hower. But the precinct con-
ventions just held show pretty
clearly what those decisions
will be.
★
To an outsider like myself,
these precinct conventions are
most interesting examples of
popular government in action
at the grass roots and the
street corners of this big
State. In the cities they were
all held at the same hour on
last Saturday evening. I at-
tended two—one Democratic,
the other Republican, al-
though I reached the latter
only in time to hear the re-
sult. In most years these
meetings of the voters are
attended by only a handful of
people. This year the attend-
ance was astonishingly large.
Feelings ran high. Spirited
speeches were made on each
side. The decisive vote was
taken almost as soon as the
meeting got itself organized.
In the Democratic conven-
tions the first and last issue
was the so-called loyalty
pledge. This pledge, proposed
by a member of the pro-na-
tional administration faction
of the Democratic Party,
otherwise known as “loyal-
ists” and hereinafter known
as “liberals,” was to instruct
delegates to the successive
conventions to support the
decisions of the various con-
ventions up to and including
the national convention in
Chicago.
The fundamental article of
faith of those who are op-
posed to the Truman policies,
hereinafter known as “con-
servatives,” is to keep utterly
free of instructions. Laws are
cited on each side of the issue,
but to me there seems to be
small doubt about the law and
logic being with the conserv-
atives. In any event, the sov-
ereign voters in hundreds of
precincts decided for the con-
servatives.
After the decisive vote on
the pledge, the contest was
practically over, and in a great
many cases the defeated fac-
tion withdrew, usually to an-
other part of the landscape a
short distance away, and held
a rump convention. In one
case in Ft. Worth 100 quali-
fied Democrats were present,
and only six voted liberal. But
the six held a rump conven-
tion and will send a contest-
ing delegation to the county
convention.
As recorded in this column
last week, it was felt by the
conservative leaders that so
many of their followers would
go over to the Republican con-
ventions to vote for Eisen-
hower that they might lose in
their own. That result did not
materialize. It seems that so
many people oppose Truman,
Trumanism, spreading Feder-
alism and creeping Socialism
that there were enough on the
opposition side to carry both
sets of conventions.
That seems to me to be the
outstanding lesson of these
conventions. There is such ar-
dent, almost desperate, feeling
for a change in Washington
that the outpouring of voters
was overwhelming and unprec-
edented. They were taking
two ways of accomplishing
the change. One was to follow
Gov. Shivers and fight it out
in the Democratic Party. The
other was to go over to the
Republican side and help nom-
inate Eisenhower.
Finally, this Texas result
was no sudden uprising, no
unpremeditated act. The
groundwork had been laid
over many years by a move-
ment among conservative cit-
izens who have created organ-
ized strength and have also
succeeded in altering the pri-
mary and election laws so
that a citizens’ revolt might
succeed. To these people, de-
voted to American traditions
and determined to redeem the
party, goes a large measure
of the credit for this result.
BY RAYMOND
MOLEY