KNOWLAND IS A GOOD CHOICE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
No one but Sen. Taft, his
doctors, and intimates know
how serious his illness may
prove to be, but the best
opinions I have heard from
medical men not connected
with the case is that to use
the word "serious" is sub-
ject to misinterpretation.
Perhaps the Senator chose
the word, but wise physicians
say that some other word
would have been better and
more descriptive. In short,
they would say the illness is
not dangerous and can re-
spond to treatment.
But because a floor leader
must be literally on his feet
hours every day, Taft's full
duties in the Senate must be
assumed by his chosen sub-
stitute, Sen. William Know-
land.
Certain facts about Know-
land are almost too well
known to need repetition
here. He has grown up in the
newspaper business and in
politics. He is the son of Jo-
seph Knowland, proprietor of
the Oakland Tribune, who
was almost continuously in
the California Legislature and
Congress from 1898 to 1915.
*
Sen. Knowland was very
active in national Republican
Party circles some years
before his appointment by
Gov. Warren to the Senate in
1944. His second election to
a full term last year was sig-
nalized by a sweep of both
primaries, with an over-all
majority over his opponent
of some 1,600,000 votes. I
know of no larger majority
ever cast for any office oth-
er than a Presidency or a
Vice-Presidency in our na-
tional history in a contested
election.
This majority, plus the ris-
ing tide of respect for Know-
land which I have found in
California from year to year,
is an important factor in his
capacity to do well as a par-
liamentary leader. It means
that political security will
enable him to brush aside the
irrelevant and drive ahead in
the immense job of leader-
ship.
It was said of William Pitt,
who steered England through
its greatest perils and who is
remembered as a transcend-
ently great Prime Minister.
It takes security in politics
to permit a man to attend to
business. Taft had that. He
was, perhaps, "caviar to the
general," but his contribu-
tion lives far above that of
his more amiable, rollicking
contemporaries.
Knowland has the neces-
sary security and he has the
intensely serious disposition
of a floor leader. He is an
indefatigable worker and his
loyalty to his party and its
leaders is beyond question.
He has youth as had Pitt.
It is not irrelevant to add
that his wife Helen was once
described to me by a well-
known Governor of an East-
ern State as the best-in-
formed woman in American
politics.
*
In the trying days before
and during the Republican
convention, Knowland mani-
fested honesty and loyalty
with few parallels in pub-
lic life. Both the Taft and
the Eisenhower managers
were angling for the big Cali-
fornia delegation. Both sides
were willing to offer almost
anything, including the Vice-
Presidential spot. But Gov.
Warren had won the delega-
tion by a fair vote and was
entitled to undeviating sup-
port. Moreover, as few
realized then, Warren was
very, very serious in his
campaign for the Presiden-
tial nomination. Knowland
listened to no blandishments
from other candidates. He
stood and lost with Warren.
His loyalty to Taft and his
party will be equally firm
now.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.