Several days in the current
week are 20th anniversaries
of the momentous happen-
ings in the bank crisis of 1933.
There are circumstances sur-
rounding those events which
have some meaning for the
current problems of the new
Eisenhower administration,
else those days might be left
to history.
The events of those days
20 years ago have been so
muddled by partisan gabble
that to most people they are
a meaningless blur. To some,
however, the banking crisis
that attended Roosevelt's in-
auguration was a horrible
disaster brought on by evil
and blundering Republicans
and from which heroic Demo-
crats gallantly rescued the
country. There were mis-
takes all around, it is true,
but this political myth de-
serves correction in the light
of what really happened.
To make this correction, it
is unnecessary to resolve the
issue between Messrs. Hoover
and Roosevelt as to what
might have been done well
before things reached a crit-
ical state. There is no need
to review that here.
The fact is that by March 3
things had reached a critical
state. There were devastat-
ing withdrawals of gold and
currency, which grew worse
hour by hour. The Hoover
people knew quite well what
could be done but hesitated
because there was no assur-
ance that Congress would
confirm their actions. They
claimed, with some reason,
that only Roosevelt could
give that assurance. That he
refused to give because he
claimed that he could not
guarantee the action of Con-
gress.
The moment he was in-
stalled in the White House,
on the afternoon of March 4,
he took the suggested actions
himself. These were the in-
voking of an old power under
the World War I "Trading
With the Enemy Act" to con-
trol the withdrawal of gold
and silver and a proclamation
closing the banks.
These actions, so often des-
ignated as "bold and daring,"
were prepared in the office of
the Secretary of the Treasury
by Ex-Secretary of the Treas-
ury Mills, holdover Under-
secretary Ballantine, Acting
Comptroller of the Currency
F. G. Awalt, together with
Will Woodin, Roosevelt's new
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Hoover people labored
as valiantly as anyone to
save the situation, and their
experienced help was invalu-
able.
Later that week, after the
banks were closed, on March
6, Jesse Jones, a Hoover ap-
pointee but a Democrat, came
into action with the RFC, a
Hoover product. By an
amendment to the act creat-
ing the RFC, rushed through
Congress on March 9, Jones
was able to invest in the pre-
ferred stock or capital notes
of banks which were permit-
ted to open. But the deter-
mination of which banks
were to receive this help de-
pended upon the experienced
help of Ballantine and Awalt
and the subsequent judgment
of Woodin.
I know these facts to be
true, because I was present
throughout assisting Woodin.
Thus, the salvation of the
banks and the economic sta-
bility of the country depend-
ed upon the meshing of the
experience of the outgoing
regime with the prestige and
energy of the new one. This
continuity is essential in any
change, and it is the reason
why, despite the growling of
Republican job hunters, it
is essential to move slowly in
changing top personnel.
In another column I want
to give an account of the
third event in that weekâ€”
the drastic economy program
which gave such a lift to the
country and which no doubt
was a big factor in bringing
money back to the banks.
That, too, has a bearing on
present events.