INVASION
OF POWER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In the rush of the last
days of Congress, it is likely
that the public failed to note
with sufficient interest a
statement of President Ei-
senhower which went to the
very vitals of our constitu-
tional system. His com-
plaint, which was stated in
very forceful terms, was
wholly justified because
Congress had presented him
with a proposition that was
clearly an invasion of his
legitimate executive power.
It concerned the enor-
mous appropriation bill for
the Department of Defense
involving many billions of
dollars. There had been
tacked onto this bill an
amendment which said in
substance that the Presi-
dent and the Secretary of
Defense might not without
certain preliminaries use
any funds to transfer to pri-
vate commercial companies
any work which had been
performed by the govern-
ment "for a period of three
years or more." Those pre-
liminaries were to submit to
the Appropriation Commit-
tees of both houses any such
transfer, and if either com-
mittee refused to grant per-
mission, the transfer could
not be made.

*

However, since this was
a part of a vital appropria-
tion and the President is
still constitutionally pre-
vented from vetoing a sin-
gle part of a bill, he was
compelled to take all or
nothing. In a message ac-
companying his approval of
the bill he said that he be-
lieved, on the authority of
the Attorney General, that
the restriction was "an un-
constitutional invasion of
the province of the execu-
tive." He said further that,
since he regarded the lim-
itation on his power as un-
constitutional, he would
disregard it until the issue
was "otherwise determined
by a court of competent
jurisdiction."
Therefore, there is on the
way an epoch-making court
decision which may well de-
termine for the future the
whole question of legisla-
tive power over the execu-
tive.
The importance of get-
ting the Defense Depart-
ment out of what should be
private business was ex-
haustively treated by a task
force of the Hoover com-
mission, headed by Charles
R. Hook, chairman of the
Armco Steel Corp. It point-
ed out that the Defense De-
partment was running
something like 2500 busi-
nesses. Some of these, like
shipbuilding and the manu-
facture of munitions, are
sanctified by age. But many
are appendages, for which
there is no logical justifica-
tion, added since we have
been building great arma-
ments.

*

Some of these businesses
include the manufacture of
wooden containers, mirror
and picture frames, uphol-
stered wooden household
furniture, mattresses and
bed springs, window and
door screens, clothing, den-
tal and medical materials
and rope. The Defense De-
partment is engaged in bak-
ing, coffee roasting, meat
cutting, dry cleaning and
laundering.
A great many of these
enterprises could and
should be done by small pri-
vate companies under con-
tract. And, as Sen. Thye
pointed out, the govern-
ment is maintaining a small
business administration to
find ways to help free enter-
prise. The best it could do
would be to get out of com-
petition.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.