VIRGINIA FROM AFAR
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It is not going to help
reasonable men in their
quest for a reasonable so-
lution of the problem of
school segregation for
northern voices like that
of the New York Times to
direct emotional lectures
toward the Southern
States. The Times edito-
rially said that the recent
Virginia plebiscite on the
subject "represents an
emotional and almost des-
perate reaction against the
clearly defined shape of
things to come."
There are many mil-
lions of us who are un-
willing to accept from the
Times or any other single
authority a definition of
"the clearly defined shape
of things to come" on this
or on any other subject.
*
It is, moreover, interest-
ing to note that among
those millions unwilling
to permit the editor and
publisher of the Times to
enjoy a monopoly of en-
lightenment are the dis-
tinguished Arthur Krock,
for many years head of the
Times' Washington bu-
reau, and John J. Popham,
the Times' regional corre-
spondent from the South.
It is interesting to note
that the more remote the
Times people are from the
problem the more certain
they are that they have
the only possible solution.
The State of Virginia,
certainly not less enlight-
ened than some of its
northern fellow common-
wealths. is recognizing that
the problem posed by the
Supreme Court in its his-
torical opinion in 1954 re-
quires a policy of cautious
preparation for circum-
stances that it hopes will
not be confronted, but that
are quite possible.
Specifically, the voters of
the State, by an overwhelm-
ing vote, have said that
they may have to abolish
their public school system
rather than submit to com-
pulsory integration. The
vote authorized the calling
of a constitutional conven-
tion which will consider
the amendment of the pres-
ent Constitution of the State
to permit State funds to be
appropriated for private
schools.
We in the North should
understand that the issue
is no longer the simple
question whether white and
Negro children shall attend
the same schools. The issue
is compulsion, either for
or against segregation.
In a very reasonable
speech last May, a young
North Carolinian, A. Reed
Sarratt Jr., editorial writ-
er for the Winston-Salem
Journal, stated the problem
this way:
"The Supreme Court has
said that laws requiring
segregated schools violated
the 14th Amendment. The
court has not said that en-
forced mixing of the races
in the schools must be sub-
stituted for enforced seg-
regation . . . The court has
not replaced one compul-
sion with another . . .
"It is my belief that
North Carolina could re-
move all legal compulsion
for segregation in the
schools without causing
much change in the pres-
ent racial composition of
the student bodies of the
schools. There would be
some mixing of the races
in some schools. But the
social patterns which have
governed relations between
the races should not be ex-
pected to change. If there
is any change it will be
slow."
This view, expressed by
Sarratt, was endorsed by
responsible public officials
and educators in his State.
It may not be the final an-
swer, but it points to a
factor which has funda-
mental roots in human na-
ture. Americans don't like
prohibitions.
Perhaps with a removal
of compulsions, coupled
with a recognition of the
differences among school
districts which must be
left to the districts them-
selves for adjustment, we
shall arrive at a working
arrangement acceptable to
all but those who would ar-
bitrarily impose upon the
future their own concept of
morality and justice.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.