UNIONS IN
POLITICS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
One of the unfortunate
results of the disclosures in
the investigation of officers
of the Teamsters Union will
be the assumption that the
political power of union
leaders will henceforth be
negligible.
Two proofs that such an
assumption is wrong have
appeared since the BÃ©ck
incident, in the very shad-
ow of the clouds over the
union movement.
The first was the sweep
of the Democratic Party in
the State and local elec-
tions in Michigan. Two im-
portant offices which Re-
publicans have held, that
of the State Highway Com-
missioner and the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruc-
tion, were taken by Demo-
crats. These solidify the
Democratic-labor hold,
largely because the two of-
fices have a great deal to do
with hundreds of millions
of dollars in construction
contracts. Democrats also
were elected to the two
bodies which control
Michigan State University
and the University of
Michigan.
*
Since the UAW and its
head, Walter Reuther, sub-
stantially control the Dem-
ocratic Party in Michigan,
this means a powerful ba-
sis of operations for fur-
ther gains over the nation.
In Texas, conservatives
divided their votes be-
tween Martin Dies and a
Republican, and conse-
quently Ralph Yarborough,
whose solid core of support
is a labor vote in indus-
trial centers, goes to the
U.S. Senate.
These victories are a sug-
gestion of what will very
likely happen in other
States in 1958.
Meanwhile, there is
abundant talk of legisla-
tion which would substan-
tially reduce the power of
the unions in Federal elec-
tions. The Taft-Hartley Act
specifically placed the
unions under the same pro-
hibitions as corporations so
far as political activity is
concerned. But the unions
have, until now, been per-
mitted to determine which
activities are "political"
and which are "education-
al." Plenty of proof of that
is contained in the report
of Sen. Gore's subcommit-
tee on 1956 campaign ex-
penditures.
I have discussed this re-
port on a previous occasion
in one of these articles, not-
ing its distortions of fact
and its patent bias. How-
ever, on March 29 Sen.
Schoeppel, in a long and
meticulously documented
speech, tore the Gore re-
port to shreds.
Among other points
made by Schoeppel was an
exposition of how the sub-
committee treated politi-
cal activities of the unions.
He showed that whereas in
one tabulation "labor" is
credited with contributing
$941,271, a search through
the report unearths more
than $3,000,000.
During the hearings of
the subcommittee Sen.
Goldwater demanded that
it secure from the AFL-
CIO's Committee on Politi-
cal Education an account-
ing in money of what a
"blitz" in Oregon cost-a
blitz in which 200 cars and
1400 workers were em-
ployed in behalf of the can-
didacies of Sen. Morse and
Rep. Green. The subcom-
mittee failed to produce
the information.
*
While the Gore subcom-
mittee apparently accept-
ed as legitimate under the
law the unions' definition
of "educational" expendi-
tures which excluded very
important political activi-
ties, the Supreme Court,
speaking through Justice
Frankfurter, did not.
Until this matter of defi-
nition of "educational" and
"political" activity is
cleared up there will be no
diminution of the exercise
of vast power with the gen-
eral funds of unions. And
apparently there will be no
help toward such a clarifi-
cation by Democratic Sen-
ators such as those who
submitted the Gore report.
With the union shop fas-
tened upon certain indus-
tries, the political rights of
minority members will be
violated to the extent that
the money they pay in dues
will be used against their
own candidates for politi-
cal office.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.