RAYMOND MOLEY:
Why 'Poor' Louisiana
Rejects School Aid

SHREVEPORT, La.â€”In
the President's message of
Jan. 28 Louisiana was list-
ed as one of the "poor"
States unable to build
schools for its population.
Under the curious system
provided for the President
for allocating Federal funds
the Federal allotment per
Louisiana child for the
first year of the program
would be $12.34. The al-
lotment to Louisiana from
Federal funds would be
$9,204,000. Under the plan
Louisiana State and local
communities would then
"match" this with $4,601,-
000.
This amount per child for
Louisiana would be ex-
ceeded only by those
planned for North Dakota,
Alabama, Arkansas, Mis-
sissippi, South Carolina,
West Virginia and New
Mexico. These States are
thus labeled as the "need-
iest" by the bureaucrats
who provide the President
with his figures.
*
Plenty of evidence is
available to challenge the
alleged need of all these
States, and on this trip I
have traveled by automo-
bile the length and breadth
of three without discover-
ing marked need. But when
I came to Louisiana there
was time to gather the de-
tailed facts.
These support the gen-
eral impression that Louisi-
ana is certainly not "poor,"
considering the vast re-
sources in oil, gas, shipping
and other wealth.
Two weeks after the
President's message the
Public Affairs Research
Council issued an analysis
of the school construction
situation which completely
demolishes the President's
specific estimates as well
as his charge that "the need
for Federal assistance is
not theory but demon-
strated fact," and also that
"there has been inadequate
progress in reducing the
shortage accumulated over
many past years."

This Louisiana survey
gathered statistics from
each of the 67 parishes of
the State. These show that
62 of the 67 of these units
of local government are
presently able to finance
their school needs up to
1960, with a surplus of
$569,100,000 in unused
bonding capacity after the
needs are met.
This disposes of the first
of the President's claims.
The second, which is an as-
sertion that there has been
"inadequate progress," is
met by some figures of
progress since 1954. In that
year the Louisiana State
Department of Education
estimated that the State's
67 parish and city school
systems would require
$235,600,000 to finance their
building and transportation
needs to 1959. Since that
survey was made, 13 of
those systems have issued
bonds in amounts more
than necessary for their
needs, and the other 54 sys-
tems have reduced their
needs by more than a third.
In the last 10 years the
building has gone on much
faster than the increase of
population.
*
The survey also notes
that as much as $100,000,-
000 in local funds for school
construction has been au-
thorized but is not yet
spent.
Now to return to the five
parishes which have inade-
quate bonding resources to
meet their needs. The
shortage in these is only
$4,100,000. It is interesting
to note that this sum is near
the amount which, under
the President's plan, the
State and local communi-
ties would spend in match-
ing funds.
Are we to believe that it
is necessary to give a State
$9,204,000 in Federal funds
which it does not need in
order to induce the State
to grant half of that to five
local governments? The an-
swer of the State of Louisi-
ana is "No, thank you!"
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.