BEWARE OF
THIS BILL
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The area redevelopment
bill, S 3683, promoted by
Sen. Paul H. Douglas and
sponsored by a good many
Senators who ought to
know better, was passed
by the Senate by a vote
of 46 to 36. It would pro-
mote such a drastic inter-
ference with our economy
that it deserves more at-
tention than the space al-
lotted to this article per-
mits. Therefore, I shall
limit myself here to an
outline of what it proposes
and in another article
point out why it is not only
dangerous but unneces-
sary.
The plan is a lineal de-
scendant of the various
schemes promoted by the
Tugwell-Wallace group 20
years ago. It may be re-
membered that their ob-
jective then was to un-
settle and then "resettle"
people who were unable
to get on where they were.
Some of those schemes,
which President Roosevelt
permitted and Mrs. Roose-
velt glorified with speech
and pen, proved to be vast-
ly expensive. They helped
very few, if any, unsettled
people, and because of the
administrative incompe-
tence of Wallace and Tug-
well they were ridiculous-
ly bungled in their opera-
tion.
But Sen. Douglas is con-
firmed in his determina-
tion to put into effect some
of the dreams which he
expounded in his Socialis-
tic college years. Now,
with a recession, his
chance has come.
The basic mischief in
such schemes is that they
are a reversal of the proc-
ess under which the
American economy grew
to its present importance.
One of the notable charac-
teristics in American life
has always been its mobil-
ity. When a farmer or
worker found the going
hard he would pull up
stakes and move until he
found conditions favor-
able to a good life.
But the Douglas plan
would bring prosperity to
distressed people instead
of letting them move to
where they might do bet-
ter.
The bill passed by the
Senate would set up a new
Area Redevelopment Ad-
ministration as a part of
the Housing and Home Fi-
nance Agency. This would
be put in charge of a com-
missioner, who would be
"advised" by a lot of de-
partment and bureau
heads already unable to
serve on all the multifari-
ous boards and committees
to which they belong. The
commissioner would desig-
nate areas which should
get help-probably with
jerkings of his elbow by
Senators and Representa-
tives who want to be in on
the pork for their own
areas. Both industrial and
rural areas are included in
the plan.
The bill provides further
that the commissioner be
authorized "to purchase
evidences of indebtedness
and to make loans (includ-
ing immediate participa-
tions therein) to aid in fi-
nancing any project within
a redevelopment area for
the purchase or develop-
ment of land and facilities
(including machinery and
equipment) for industrial
usage, for the construction
of factory buildings, for
the rehabilitation of aban-
doned or unoccupied fac-
tory buildings, or for the
alteration, conversion or
enlargement of any exist-
ing buildings for industrial
use."
Provision also is made
for Federal loans for pub-
lic facilities and for Fed-
eral grants for public fa-
cilities and "the supervi-
sion of carrying out of
projects with respect to
which grants are made."
There is provision for
Federal technical assist-
ance and technical infor-
mation to designated rede-
velopment areas, for Fed-
eral financial assistance to
a local public agency for
urban renewal in a rede-
velopment area, for Feder-
al financial aid for voca-
tional training or retrain-
ing of unemployed indi-
viduals in redevelopment
areas, including subsist-
ence payments to such in-
dividuals, and for the pre-
vailing wage rate and the
40-hour week on all area-
redevelopment projects.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.