RAYMOND MOLEY:
Twice Beaten Project
Reappears in House
It is not surprising that
in the mad spending sprees
in the last minutes of Con-
gress the old, twice-beaten
Fryingpan project has ap-
peared again. Hearings
have been held and ef-
forts will be made to have
a House vote before the
end of the session. In the
Senate the measure was
rushed through without a
record vote in 1954. The
cost is now estimated at
$160,000,000, but it is hard
to see how it can be kept
from climbing ultimately
to twice as much. A some-
what similar project to the
north of this one, the big
Thompson diversion, cost
four times its original esti-
mate.
At the urging of the am-
bitious Bureau of Recla-
mation and a number of
politically motivated, log-
rolling members of Con-
gress, the President-with
what is, I warrant, little
personal knowledge-has
recommended the Frying-
pan project a number of
times. It appeared as re-
cently as in his January
budget message.
*
Strong opposition to this
added drain on the pre-
cious Colorado River sup-
ply has come from west
of the Continental Di-
vide. I first had personal
knowledge of the idea a
few years ago on a visit to
Aspen, Colo. At that time
I wrote several articles
about it which won heat-
ed newspaper attacks east
of the Divide and com-
mendation from the States
to the west.
The project would gath-
er water from tributaries
of the Colorado in the
high Rockies and, by a se-
ries of canals and a tunnel
bored under the Divide,
dump water into the Ar-
kansas River in the vicin-
ity of Leadville. Then it
would be used to generate
power in some smallish
plants on the east slope,
provide some water for
cities over there and, final-
ly, provide a very small
amount of additional wa-
ter for irrigation in South-
eastern Colorado along the
Arkansas. It is pointed out
that at the high elevation
of the diversion, the water
would be frozen for
months.
The estimate for power
developments on the Ar-
kansas River is $45,000,-
000. According to the mi-
nority report on the proj-
ect in 1956, the cost of
power from four of the
seven plants contemplated
would be excessive-much
more than the selling price
of 6 mills per kilowatt-
hour. Considering the fact
that during the 60-year re-
payment period competing
sources of power, such as
coal and nuclear energy,
would render such dams
obsolete, such an invest-
ment has no justification
whatever.
*
It is in the old political
game of irrigation that
costs, as against benefits,
are truly ridiculous. In
the first place the addi-
tional irrigation water
provided by the millions
allocated to that purpose
in the project would be
only 2 inches, or one-
sixth of an acre-foot. Es-
timates of what it takes
to irrigate land in such an
area run to 4 feet. Count-
ing the interest in the 60
years' delay in repayment,
the total ultimate addition
to the national debt would
be $200,000,000. The cost
would be $700 per acre
benefited by this dribble
of water.
The cream of the jest is
that under the soil bank
plan a lot of money has
been going to that very
area in Southeastern Colo-
rado as payment for not
planting. In fact, when I
asked Secretary Benson
for information on the sub-
ject, I learned that the
largest of all soil bank
payments was to corpora-
tions in that very area two
years ago. Thus the tax-
payer pays to prepare land
for planting and then pays
for not planting on that
land.
With staggering deficits
ahead of us, together with
a prospect of endless infla-
tion, this is the sort of
thing that is stirring in
Congress.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.