DISCORD ON THE LEFT
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Now, after the celebra-
tions are over and the 1958
election is a matter of his-
tory, and the new Con-
gressmen are all ready for
the trip to Washington
with shiny new suitcases
and a briefcase of speeches,
a troubled feeling must be
dawning among them that
it isn't quite clear what
they were elected for.
True, they have slaugh-
tered a monster called
Eisenhowerism, but their
problem is what to do with
the body. An idea sug-
gested itself to me as I
watched one of Alfred
Hitchcock's murder
stories. Two prospectors
killed a bad man and, aft-
er burying him in the gar-
den, they planted a rose-
bush on the shallow grave.
Thereupon the bush
bloomed with great vigor.
Now, over the remains of
Eisenhower prosperity, the
86th Congress must pro-
duce fine American Beau-
ties.
*
It's that way with vic-
tories. "Where do we go
from here?"
After the election of
1936, with President
Roosevelt triumphant and
a Congress bursting at the
seams with Democrats, I
was talking with Max Gor-
don, the theatrical produc-
er. We discussed the obvi-
ous fact that the steam had
run out of the New Deal,
that about everything con-
ceivable had been tried,
and that it was going to
be hard to maintain the
appearance of marching
bravely forward.
Gordon, a scarred but
opulent veteran of many
smashing successes as well
as failures in show busi-
ness, said: "In other words,
what's to be done with a
hit?" Roosevelt verified
this doubt by wasting his
victory on an unsuccessful
effort to pack the Supreme
Court.
As the Senators and Rep-
resentatives now have
turned to the economic
seers and surgeons in the
kind of U.S. housing ad-
ministrator.
Two weeks later, Gal-
braith returned the volley,
and a week later Key-
serling returned to the
fray. It seems that the
"one-third of a nation"
on which the welfare state
theories were erected has
appeared in the missing
persons file. These un-
fortunates were, as some
will remember, underfed,
ill housed, and ill clad. The
philosophy so elaborately
built up in England and in
the United States is simply
out of date.
Rex Tugwell's dream of
the more abundant life has
come, and it is too abun-
dant to suit Galbraith.
Then there appeared in
the New Republic an ar-
ticle by a breathless radical
who claims to have found
the missing "one-third of
the nation."
*
There is also dissension
about the idea of "more
purchasing power." Gal-
braith thinks that there is
too much purchasing pow-
er.
Altogether, the situation
is very distressing to the
radicals. Sen. Douglas,
who goes along with al-
most everything, is still a
believer in government
economy. Even Sen. Neu-
berger has sounded a
warning to the leftists
that, if they insist upon
spending, they must also
taxâ€”and that levying new
taxes will be very em-
barrassing.
I suspect that with the
scrambling of the eggheads
we shall have that old
maestro, politics, taking
over. What the dish will
be, no one can foretell.
Even the cooks are unable
to find its name or a recipe.
Leon Keyserling
hearings of the Joint Eco-
nomic Committee, they
have found a rather be-
wildering confusion among
the former New Deal and
Fair Deal economists as to
what should be done, new
and different.
Some of the discord ap-
peared in the New Re-
public, the favored organ
of the brave new-worlders.
In October, Leon Key-
serling fell upon John
Galbraith, author of "The
Affluent Society," with
very considerable violence.
This is truly fraternal
warfare, for Galbraith was
a price administrator in
Washington back there
while Keyserling was some
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.