The bitter criticism of
ships under the flags of
Panama and Liberia, now
underlying a boycott
threatened this month by
the International Trans-
port Workers Federation,
would have us believe that
these cargo carriers are
mainly of the breed of
rusty tramps.
Perhaps, like the Inch-
cliffe Castle, in the famous
stories about Colin Glen-
cannon, "a tramp steam-
er with the woebegone air
of an old Gypsy crone fall-
en on evil days."
Lord Howe in a Parlia-
mentary debate has said
that "these ships are work-
ing without any regard to
wages and working condi-
tions of the crews." That
calls for a sharp denial.
For it simply is not true.
★
It is true that there are
such tramps in foreign
registries. But predomi-
nantly there are the mas-
sive bulk carriers pio-
neered by Daniel K. Lud-
wig for the necessities of
American industry.
We have consulted Er-
ling D. Naess, an Ameri-
can whose company has
750,000 deadweight tank-
er tons in operation un-
der "flags of necessity,"
and another 750,000 tons
building, about this
charge.
He has said that "about
one-half of the American-
controlled tanker fleet of
approximately 12,000,000
deadweight tons is under
the flags of Panama, Li-
beria and Honduras, whose
combined tanker fleets ag-
gregate about 13,000,000
tons deadweight. About
8,000,000 of the 33,000,000
tons deadweight of tank-
ers now under construc-
tion or on order through-
out the world are for
American owners who will
register them under flags
of necessity. It is essential
that America should have
at her command in war-
time an adequate amount
of tanker tonnage, at least
10,500,000 tons dead-
weight...
★
"A large part of the
tanker fleet, as well as the
dry-cargo fleet, registered
in Liberia and Panama,
has been financed by
American banks and in-
surance companies, which
have become satisfied that
the vessels are properly
managed and that there is
no danger of the ships be-
ing requisitioned by a
government other than
that of the United States,
Liberia and Panama, and
that no unreasonable bur-
den will be placed upon
the operation of these ves-
sels."
So far as working condi-
tions are concerned, Mr.
Naess had this to say at
the launching of his Naess
Falcon on Oct. 4, 1958, at
Flushing, Holland:
★
"The Naess Falcon will
comply with the strictest
standards of the American
Bureau of Shipping and
requirements of the Inter-
national Labor Organiza-
tion convention of Geneva,
1919, and International
Convention for Safety of
Life at Sea, 1948. She will
be completely air condi-
tioned; an attractive swim-
ming pool will be provided
for the enjoyment of her
officers and crew; radios
will be installed in most, if
not all, public rooms; a
movie projector will en-
able such part of the crew
who are not on watch to
assemble to enjoy new
films, which will be sup-
plied whenever possible.
Each member of the crew
will have his own cabin.
Last, but certainly not
least, wages will be paid
to the crew materially in
excess of the tariffs of
Britain, Scandinavia, Hol-
land and other European
countries.
"What is true of the
Naess Falcon is true of all
American-owned and, to
the best of my knowledge,
most other ships under
Panamanian and Liberian
flags—namely, that they
offer standards at least
equal to those of the lead-
ing European maritime
nations."
★
Thus, it is not really
working conditions, nor
ship quality, nor wages
that is worrying the Brit-
ish and Norwegians and
the International Trans-
portation Federation. It
is the stiff competition that
will be provided by Amer-
ican-owned ships that are
of fine quality, with better
working conditions and
wages than the other big
maritime nations are pro-
viding. In announcing a
boycott, Omer Becu, gen-
eral secretary of the ITF,
added this statement: "We
also want this action to at-
tract public attention to
this fundamental problem
which may affect the en-
tire economies of tradi-
tional maritime nations."