Mr. Nixon Gives Mr. Khrushchev
the Facts of American Thinking
Whether Khrushchev,
muddled as he is by his
own propaganda and his
ignorance of American
conditions, and the Rus-
sian people, brain-washed
for 40 years, can compre-
hend what Vice-President
Nixon told them on Sun-
day, it was a speech con-
veying the mind and heart
of the American people.
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
as accomplishments are
not the things enjoyed by
their people, Nixon under-
lined another point. This
was aimed directly at a
Russian people still
pinched by vast warlike
preparations and denied,
again and again, the con-
sumer abundance prom-
ised by successive dicta-
tors:
"Let us start with some
of the things in this ex-
hibit. You will see a
house, a car, a television
set, cach the newest and
most modern of its type
we produce. But can only
the rich in the United
States afford such things?
If this. were the case, we
would have to include in
our definition of rich the
This was especially true
when he said: "Dedication
to peace, goodwill and hu-
man brotherhood should
never be mistaken for
weakness, softness and
fear. Much as we want
peace, we will fight to de-
fend our country and our
way of life just as you
have fought so courageous-
ly to defend your home-
land throughout your his- millions of American wage
tory. The peace we want
and the peace the world
needs is not the peace of
surrender but the peace of
justice, not peace by ulti-
matum, but by negotia-
tion."
*
Also, it was stressed
that the policies of our
government are at one
with the aspirations of the
American people:
"Those who claim that
the policies of the Ameri-
can government do not
represent and are not sup-
ported by the American
people are engaging in a
completely inaccurate and
dangerous form of self-de-
ception. Any administra-
tion which follows policies
which do not reflect the
views of our people on ma-
jor issues runs the risk of
defeat at the next election.
earners
"Putting it another way,
there are 44 million fam-
ilies in the United States.
Twenty-five million of
these families live in
houses or apartments that
have as much or more floor
space than the one we see
in this exhibit. Thirty-
one million families own
their own homes and the
land on which they are
built. America's 44 mil-
lion families own a total
of 56 million cars, 50 mil-
lion television sets, and
143 million radio sets. And
they buy an average of
nine dresses and suits and
14 pairs of shoes per fam-
ily per year."
It is recognized by ev-
eryone that the content of
the Sunday speech is quite
unlike the talk that will
"The reason the leaders-be delivered to Khru-
of both our major political
parties are united in sup-
porting President. Eisen-
hower's foreign policies is
that they are reflecting
the views of a people who
are united behind these
policies."
Since in Communist
propaganda both from
Moscow and Peiping the
things shown and claimed
shchev in private conver-
sations. Nixon left the
United States with the set
determination not only to
be clear and explicit, but
if necessary to use as
rough language as the oc-
casion demands.
And judging by the cyni-
cal comments last week by
Khrushchev and Pravda
about the Vice-President's
visit, the occasion will de-
mand blow for blow. As
the late Secretary Dulles
learned, there is less peril
to peace in dealing with a
bully with such tactics
than in merely defensive
parrying.
Moreover, the Nixon
visit represents the near-
est thing to a summit con-
frontation that Khru-
shchev is likely to get for
some time. The Soviet
boss believes that Nixon
will be the next President,
and hence that the Nixon
attitude will be the Ameri-
can position for some years
to come. Whether this be-
lief of Khrushchev is cor-
rect is not at the moment
important. The fact is that
he believes it.
Nixon will represent no
mere reportorial visitor, no
hi-fi instrument to play
back Khrushchev's rum-
blings to the American
public. That was the weak-
ness of ex-Gov. Averill
Harriman's role when he
visited Moscow. Nor is
Nixon made of the same
fiber as Harriman.
*
The former New York
governor is personally a
man who hates face-to-face
encounter when anything
unpleasant is under con-
sideration. He has always
been that way. He does his
threatening through chan-
nels or after the event. As
no doubt the Soviet ruler
planned, Harriman came
back and proclaimed to
Americans the threats of
Khrushchev as a deadly
serious matter.
It was somewhat the
same in the case of re-
porter Stevenson, whose
faith in words kindled a
flare of hope for accommo-
dation.
The American public is
sick and tired of Geneva,
of Gromyko and of the
endless roundelay of talk
at the foreign ministers'
level. It will relish a bit
of realism for a change.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.