A suspended calm pre-
vails across Virginia as the
new year approaches
which contrasts sharply
with the prolonged agita-
tion, the painful and con-
stant litigation that fol-
lowed the 1956 Supreme
Court school segregation
decision.
The state, under Gov.
Almond. has capitulated
before the federal courts.
A measure of integration
has taken place in the pub-
lic schools in Alexandria,
Arlington, Charlottesville,
Front Royal and Norfolk.
Segregation still exists, so
far unchallenged, in most
other parts of the state,
and only in rural Prince
Edward County are the
public schools closed.
★
But Virginians have re-
sponded to what they con-
sider an unconstitutional
encroachment on state's
rights, a usurpation of en-
dowed judicial power.
They have carried their
cause to a principle older
than the Supreme Court
or the republic itself-the
principle of private respon-
sibility at the local level.
This is evident in a re-
vival of local initiative
and responsibility. It is
manifested in the develop-
ment of a new kind of
school-the "independent"
school.
Administered by neither
the state nor its subdivi-
sions, independent schools
are, in effect, foundations
-endowed institutions of
elementary and secondary
education.
Charlottesville, location
of the famed University of
Virginia, offers a particu-
larly interesting example.
There, the Charlottesville
educational foundation
was incorporated in the
summer of 1958 in antici-
pation of the closing of
Charlottesville's public
schools, which occurred in
September and ended in
February, 1959. Initially,
the foundation operated
the Robert E. Lee school
for white elementary pu-
pils and assisted the "par-
ents group" in educating
900 white high school pu-
pils.
In mid-February racial
integration came to Char-
lottesville's public schools.
There is Lane High School,
with 743 white and three
Negro students, and Ven-
able Elementary School,
with 450 white and nine
Negro children.
The ultra-modern Jack-
son P. Burley High School
and the Negro elementary
school are wholly Negro
and equal, so far as it is
possible, to Lane and Ven-
able. Negro teachers' sal-
aries are on a par with
those of white teachers,
and the Negro schools are
more up to date.
The Charlottesville Ed-
ucational Foundation re-
solved to continue its oper-
ation permanently. Funds
were raised, land pur-
chased, modern buildings
constructed and equipped
for the Rockhill Academy
and the Robert E. Lee
school. An eminently qual-
ified staff was engaged.
Rockhill Academy's 320
pupils and the Robert E.
Lee school's 190 received
instruction shorn of pro-
gressive "frills." Although
the schools have not ap-
plied for assistance avail-
able under the National
Defense Education Act,
they are provided with the
best in modern science-
teaching equipment. They
have a pupil-teacher ratio
of 25-1, appreciably better
than the national average.
One thing that has made
these nonprofit independ-
ent schools possible has
been Virginia's state tui-
tion grants, payable to
white and Negro parents
who request them for
sending their children to
private schools. They
amount to the state's esti-
mated per-pupil share of
public school financing.
★
Should these grants be
challenged, it is expected
that they will be held con-
stitutional, since the pub-
lic schools are open and in-
tegrated, and the grants
merely contribute to the
freedom of choice of the
citizens of Virginia.
It is noteworthy that in-
tegration has taken place
in Charlottesville's large
elementary and high
schools without the blem-
ish of "incidents." This is
not surprising, considering
the caliber of the Virginia
character. But in the hard
transition the existence
and promise of this new
plan in Virginia have un-
doubtedly had a most
beneficial influence.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.