Dentists should be felt
and not heard. When I
hire a dentist to provide
reconditioning to a decay-
ing molar, I don't want
to have thrown in any
dissertations about poli-
tics or literature or any
anecdotes. I have many
complaints about the
tooth-smiths who have
treated me over a long
period of years, but the
most acute one is their
exercise of the privilege
of a monopoly on conver-
sation while I am gagged
by their gadgets and un-
able to reply.
*
I had one once who, aft-
er I had been fixed so
securely that my only ut-
terance was a grunt or
squeak, would set him-
self on the window sill
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
squirt gun this sort of
monologue came through:
"Everybody I meet says
that, while they can't de-
fine it, they don't think
Nixon can win if nomi-
nated. He hasn't any per-
sonality. What we need
is'glamour. If a man can't
make people love him, he
can't be a good President.
They don't know why, but
they don't like him. Do
you honestly think he can
win?" Etc., etc.
*
Vocal impotence, how-
ever, is no bar to the op-
eration of the brain. Be-
tween slashes of pain, my
friend prepared an an-
swer.
It happens that this
particular dentist is of
French descent, is asso-
ciated with the French
colony in New York, and
has many French patients.
When the gag was re-
moved, the wads of cotton
taken out, the mouth-
wash duly gurgitated and
the spitting over, my
friend had a moment to
relax. He said:
"Exactly what is it that
has made Gen. de Gaulle
the leader that he un-
doubtedly is? Five years
ago, would you have nomi-
nated him for a favorite
in a beauty contest? Is it
good looks? Or a capacity
to throw out that great
Roosevelt or Rockefeller
smile?
"How about De Gaulle's
personality? Was he ever
able to throw teen-agers
into ecstasies? Or were
they looking for a man
who could save France
from confusion and folly
created by personable,
sometimes glamorous,
leaders? They wanted a
job done, and they took
the man who could do it."
It is worthwhile to look
at this thing called per-
sonality. Thomas E. Dew-
ey was a man nobody
would fall in love with,
but he was elected to run
the government of New
York three times. He
could have been elected
President if he had not
attempted to change the
image, the true one, of a
mean, driving, efficient
prosecutor who could get
things done, cleaned up
and running. Truman kept
his own personality and
won.
*
What about Woodrow
Wilson's glamour? Or Coo-
lidge's? Or that of some of
the finest Presidents of
the past - Cleveland,
Hayes, Lincoln, Madison,
the scholar? Consider suc-
cessful prime ministers of
England - Gladstone, the
psalm-singing metaphysi-
cian who successfully led
the Liberal Party for many
years; Disraeli, the ineffa-
ble snob who courted un-
popularity but created a
party that lives and gov-
erns today; Asquith, Bo-
nar Law, Eden, who won
a bigger majority in 1955
than did Churchill in 1951;
Macmillan, who certainly
is no Clark Gable; Attlee,
the insignificant looking
and talking social worker
who led the Labor Party
successfully for 20 years.
*
The primaries are show-
ing that the American
people are not conditioned
yet by images created in
Rockefeller Center.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.