Confused Planning Over Cuba
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
Except for what it
should teach us about the
future, the account in the
Saturday Evening Post by
Stewart Alsop and Charles
Bartlett of the discus-
sions in the President's
circle of advisers before
meeting the Cuban crisis
in October is now a mat-
ter of history. History
which will be forgotten as
other crises confront the
President.
But the hullabaloo
which followed the arti-
cle's publication should
teach us a very important
aspect of this administra-
tion's way of planning for
the future.
The CIA discovered the
Soviet missiles, and the
President decided that
some sort of action was
necessary. Then there was
a period of discussion, of
which Alsop-Bartlett have
told us in detail.
*
Participating in these
discussions were individ-
uals who differed widely
in their technical knowl-
edge of military or for-
eign affairs. The President
then picked out of this dis-
cordant mass of sugges-
tions a plan which he an-
nounced and put into ef-
fect. And, as the story
goes, the President's
course of action worked.
But this sort of policy
making suggests the omi-
nous fact that, prior to
the emergent situation
presented when the mis-
siles were discovered and
photographed, there was
no plan for meeting that
specific set of circum-
stances.
The story of the improvi-
sation of that plan-when
there were no hours to
spare, with everybody
present chipping in with
this of that spur-of-the-mo-
ment idea-suggests some-
thing which was the talk
of Madison Ave. two or
three years back.
A man in a very large
and influential advertising
agency wrote a book about
what he called "brain-
storming." This meant
that when a business con-
Moley
cern was faced with a de-
cision, a miscellaneous
group of executives and
employees would be as-
sembled. These people,
most of whom had no ex-
perience in the problem
at hand, would gather
around a table.
Each would, without
previous study, throw an
idea into the pot. It was
a rule of "brainstorming"
that no one should be neg-
ative in his suggestions
and that no one should
criticize the idea of any-
one else. The theory of
this strange procedure
was that someone in
this heterogeneous group
would come up with a
good idea.
I don't know how exten-
sively this technique has
been used, but from my
observation of television
commercials I believe
some of them must come
from such "brainstorm-
ing."
*
But as a way of running
a government and shaping
foreign policy, the impli-
cations of such offhand
practices are, to say the
least, frightening.
According to the testi-
mony of Messrs. Gardner
and Smith, who served re-
spectively as ambassador
to Cuba from 1953 to
1957 and from 1957 to
1959, the State Depart-
ment's career elite-or, as
they call it in Washing-
ton, the fourth floor-
were running things so far
as Cuban relations were
concerned.
The elite on the fourth
floor really had no plans.
They were merely con-
cerned with getting Batis-
ta out. Beyond that, this
collection of bureaucrats
indulged in some highly
uninformed assump-
tions about the bearded
men in the mountains who
served under Castro.
Nothing that the respec-
tive ambassadors could say
sufficed to shake these as-
sumptions about the vir-
tues of Castroism. Out of
this mixture of purposes
and assumptions came the
downfall of Batista and
the rise to power of Cas-
tro.
*
Then, as we know, it
was decided to get rid of
Castro. There were mili-
tary plans for invasion by
refugees, but these were
subsequently thwarted by
the incompetence of the
CIA and by the Presi-
dent's fatal decision to
eliminate the vital factor
of air power.
Now the anxious citizen
must ask himself whether
there are any plans for a
future emergency. What if
the President is informed
of the reality of electron-
ic equipment in Cuba ca-
pable of frustrating our
defenses? Or of a Cuban-
directed overthrow of the
Panamanian government
by Communists? Or of
what so many now believe
--that the Soviet has an
effective submarine base
which is a greater threat
to the security of the
United States than were
the missiles?
Are there plans for such
contingencies? Or is the
President to wait until the
threat becomes clear even
to the CIA and then call a
"brainstorming" session of
assorted advisers?
The future is what con-
cerns us now. And we
know very little of that
future which can give us
assurance.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.