Roosevelt
Goes to Town
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
It was evident throughout the
recent campaign that the Roose-
velt strategy was to gamble ev-
erything on piling up a mass of
votes in the industrial cities of
the North and West. The cam-
paign, In short, was a race
against a growing revolt which
faced him in the rural districts
and small towns. It succeeded
only by a margin not at all re-
assuring to those Democrats
who look to future party tri-
umphs. For Mr. Roosevelt's
strategy, which has been the pat-
tern of action since 1936, has
left the Democratic party out-
side the great cities weak, dis-
organized and devoid of that lo-
cal patronage so essential to its
future life and well-being.
The final figures probably will
show that Mr. Roosevelt has car-
ried far fewer counties than in
any year that he has been a can-
didate. A few States will illus-
trate the trend.
SOME ILLUSTRATIONS
In Missouri, Mr. Roosevelt car-
ried 78 counties in 1936, 47 in
1910 and 40 in 1944. The city of
St. Louis, not counted in these
figures, gave him its vote each
year.
In Illinois, Mr. Roosevelt car-
ried 72 counties in 1936, 28 in
1040 and 17 In 1944.
In Ohlo, he carried 62 countles
In 1936, 60 in 1940 and 13 in
1944. Here, of course, he lost the
State.
In Pennsylvania, he carried 42
counties in 1936, 23 In 1940 and
8 In 1944.
DECLINE IN STRENGTH
This decline in Roosevelt
strength in terms of counties is
not alone due to a declining
over-all majority, although that
was another feature of the elec-
tion. It is due to the transforma-
tion, over a period of eight or
nine years, of his party in the
North and West. The party's
major appeal has been to wage
earners. Its affairs have been
more and more in the hands of
union leaders and city bosses.
And the legislation it has spon-
sored has veered increasingly to
special groups, whose support in
elections has become indis-
pensable.
This, of course, is what makes
the last three elections utterly
unlike that of 1932. In that
year Mr. Roosevelt assumed the
role of the farmer's friend. A
major part of the program of the
first New Deal was directed to-
ward raising farm prices and
lifting farm mortgages,
MINORITY DUTY
In what was really the key-
note of that campaign, three
months before the convention
which nominated him, Mr.
Roosevelt said that his major
concern was "to restore purchas-
ing power to the farming half
of the country." He also said
that he did not believe in public
works as a cure for unemploy-
ment. The speech in which this
was said came to be known as
the "forgotten man" speech. The
farmer was the "forgotten man."
This is not to suggest that the
farmer is once more the "for-
gotten man." It is merely to
illustrate how utterly the Demo-
cratic party of 1914 has become
an association of powerful pres-
sure groups, whose habitat and
way of life are far removed from
those of the people who first
nominated and elected Mr.
Roosevelt.
This election marks a political
revolution unprecedented in our
history. For we have now al-
most completely identified par-
ties with economic groups. That
this has a number of ominous
possibilities goes without saying.
The corrective will be the main-
tenance of a strong minority
party, now well intrenched in
hundreds of county seats, vil-
lages and in 23 State capitals.
Its responsibility for the main-
tenance of a balance in politics
and economics is obvious.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.