Raymond Moley-
When the great white father
from America rolled out the car-
pet for King Ibn Saud of Saudi
Arabia, it is not likely that
either of the heads of state was
unaware of the future interests
they might have in common.
For the great Moslem world in
which they were meeting is
probably the greatest of world
factors, outside the Big Five.
Just as the fierce. Turks have
adopted soft gloves in their mod-
ern diplomacy, so have the vari-
ous groups of the Arabic world
abandoned the fury with which
it threatened Europe long ago.
But as the Saracen once demon-
strated to Richard the Lion-
Hearted, the scimitar can cut a
pillow more efficiently than a
sword.
HUGE NUMBER
There are more than 40,000,000
souls in the Arabian world. This
largest Semitic group in the
world is scattered through at
least 15 states, the largest of
which are Iraq, Syria, Trans-
Jordania, Saudi Arabia and
Egypt. Its economic life ranges
from that of primitive nomads,
indistinguishable from those de-
scribed in the Old Testament, to
that of wealthy merchants in
Baghdad, Cairo or Damascus,
quite capable of dickering with
the smartest oilmen of Britain
or America.
Two great economic and geo-
graphic interests tie British and
now the American Interests in
with the Arabic world. Most
important is the Suez Canal,
which is in the heart of the
Moslem belt which stretches
from the Euphrates to the At-
lantic, The other interest is the
oil, much of which comes from
the land of Adam and Eve near
Baghdad and flows through pipe-
lines to the west.
Without this oil, it is doubtful
whether Montgomery could have
turned back the Axis at El Ala-
mein. In recent months, very
considerable additional deposits
of oil have been discovered
under the sand of the Arabian
Peninsula. American concern
for that oil is very strong, and
American diplomacy is develop-
ing a keen interest in Moslem
friendship and peace.
After some exceedingly bad
blunders in dealing with the
Arabs in North Africa, Musso-
lini developed an almost hys-
terical concern for their inter-
ests. Hitler joined him in elab-
orate propaganda efforts to in-
cite the Moslems against Brit-
ain. These irritations, coupled
with resentment against French
mistakes in Syria and Lebanon
THE UNEASY ARABS
and also with generally bad eco-
nomic conditions during the war,
have disturbed the entire Mos-
lem world. Nevertheless, its
contacts with the British and
Americans grow more concilla-
tory as the war against Germany
goes better and better for the
United Nations.
CONCESSIONS POSSIBLE
The Zionists of the Middle
East are reported to be appre-
hensive about their representa-
tion in future peace conferences.
The various Arabic peoples have
the status of real states with
Arabic governments. Palestine
Jews do not constitute a state
and have no separate govern-
ment. Their representation so
far is indirect. Even the Pales-
tine Arabs are on an equal foot-
ing with the other Arabic states.
Dr. Chaim Weizmann will go to
San Francisco to press the
claims of his people for direct
representation in the family of
states.
But even the difficult problem
of Palestine becomes easier as
the influence of Germany wanes.
There are many concessions the
Allies can make to satisfy the
Arabs that the small corner of
Palestine in the Middle East is
no essential part of their great
domain.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.