THE COTTON
REVOLUTION
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
If this were a truly nation-
al election, with two parties
contesting in both the North
and South, the decisive ele-
ment would be cotton. For na-
tional planning in Washington
—this time by Secretary Bran-
nan—has so upset the free
market that cotton States are
in open revolt.
In 1948-49, the nation en-
tered the crop year with a
carry-over of 5,300,000 bales of
cotton. We harvested from un-
restricted production a near-
record crop of over 16,000,000
bales. Our domestic need was
8,900,000 bales, and our ex-
ports, financed largely with
Marshall Plan money, were
5,900,000 bales.
It is important to note that
this amount was, despite the
help of the Marshall Plan,
only at the prewar level. This
left a carry-over of 6,700,000
bales.
So Secretary Brannan,
frightened by the danger of
another carry-over, decreed
that 6,000,000 acres be taken
out of production. He also
tried to do this with corn pro-
ducers, but they refused to
comply.
The cotton farmers were
tied down not only by acreage
restrictions but also by mar-
keting quotas.
And then Secretary Bran-
nan’s plans fell a victim to na-
ture. The cotton crop of 1950
was not 20% smaller, as ex-
pected, but 40%. The latest es-
timate is 9,800,000 bales,
Meanwhile, domestic con-
sumption increased. Exports
rose, and after Korea it was
clear that there would be a
serious shortage.
Prices began to skyrocket.
Raw cotton rose 25-35%. The
Commodities Credit Corp. then
began to unload its surplus
stocks, thus to hold the price
around 40 cents a pound.
Since the demand from
abroad had increased, the har-
assed Secretary then imposed
export restrictions. This per-
mitted Brazilian growers to
get something like 60 cents a
pound,
The cotton farmer thus
found himself in an exceed-
ingly uncomfortable situation.
His income will be lowered be-
cause of acreage restrictions.
He sees his foreign competi-
tors getting much higher
prices in foreign markets. He
blames Brannan and Truman
for his misfortunes.
Of course, this will complete-
ly kill any remaining south-
ern support for the Brannan
plan. It was never popular
there, largely because it em-
phasized marketing quotas.
Recently, to soften the re-
sentment of the cotton grow-
er, Brannan relaxed his cotton
export embargo. But this
change was only nominal. It
amounted to only 146,000 bales
in October and will merely
serve to intensify the earlier
discontent.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.