The Facts About Who
Owns Nation's Business
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In the campaign that lies
ahead there will be strenuous
efforts by Fair Deal orators
to make an issue of class dis-
tinctions. What they will try
to create in order to beguile
workers, farmers and small
businessmen will be a picture
of America in which a small
number of businessmen and
capitalists are getting an un-
fair share of the goods of life.
The Fair Deal government,
these orators will say, is the
friend of these poor people
and by inference the enemy
of business. This must be met
by a clear exposition of the
facts which do not bear out
this picture.

An excellent answer to
demagogues who are trying to
create class feeling is a sci-
entific study of stock owner-
ship by the Brookings Insti-
tution issued last week. This
survey, called "Share Owner-
ship in the United States,"
was prepared at the request
of the New York Stock Ex-
change which naturally was
interested in the question of
who owned the majority of
the shares of stock for which
it was serving as a market.
The report says that there
are 6,500,000 individual own-
ers of publicly held stock is-
sues in the United States.
These people are members of
4,750,000 family units. One in
every 16 persons in the adult
population owns shares in at
least one stock issue.

While these figures are, for
reasons I shall outline below,
understatements of the vast
extent of ownership of indus-
try, they are nevertheless a
powerful answer to the claim
of demagogues that a little
group of selfish capitalists
own American industry.
One of the first reasons why
this figure of 6,500,000 is an
understatement is the report
itself. The general public,
which means the vast middle-
income groups, owns in addi-
tion to stock billions of dol-
lars' worth of insurance poli-
cies and savings accounts.
The institutions thus entrust-
ed with the people's savings
own vast amounts of the
bonds and other credit instru-
ments of corporations. There
are also owned considerable
shares in industry through
partnerships and privately
owned corporations.

But the figure of 6,500,000 is
undoubtedly an understate-
ment of the number of owners
of publicly held stock. The
most careful and assiduous
student of this problem in the
United States is, in my opin-
ion, Dr. Rufus Tucker, chief
economist of the General Mo-
tors Corp. He has estimated
that the number may run as
high as 11,500,000. He has
more recently cut this esti-
mate somewhat but he still be-
lieves that the figure may
range anywhere from 7,000,000
to 14,000,000.

The reasons why the true
figure is hard to reach are
numerous. One is that people
who own only a very few
shares of stock are not likely
to report them in income tax
returns since the returns in
dividends are so small. Also
that people in higher income
brackets are very often reluc-
tant to answer questionnaires
which without legal compul-
sion request them to divulge
details concerning their per-
sonal affairs. It is very diffi-
cult to estimate the extent to
which these factors must be
weighed in determining final
figures.

But these estimates, both
those of the Brookings Institu-
tion and of Dr. Tucker, point
to a specific refutation of the
theory of politicians and
demagogues that industry is
more and more becoming the
monopolistic possession of a
few.

The trend is positively in
the other direction. In 1916
not more than somewhere be-
tween 1,000,000 and 2,500,000
people owned stock. The num-
ber of such owners has not
only increased at an enormous
rate absolutely but relatively
with the increase in popula-
tion.

In short, there is no basis
for the claim that the few are
growing richer and the many
are growing poorer. The oppo-
site is true.
Copyright, 1952. Associated Newspapers
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.