POLLING ABSURDITY
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
The most irrational fea-
ture of the Stassen affair
was its bland assumption
that the leaders of a re-
sponsible political party
should toss aside all their
plans because an alleged
poll had been taken which
indicated another course.
But the fact that Stassen
was serious is shown by a
further crazy plan to con-
duct another poll to see
whether the first was right.
*
Americans ought to
know by this time how fal-
lible these polls and poll-
sters can be. Their great
flop in 1948 is still fresh in
our minds. In 1952, fright-
ened by the 1948 failure,
Gallup, for one, hedged so
much that his result was
confused. He reported in
1952, some time before the
election, "a trend toward
Stevenson" which if accel-
erated would give him the
election.. This was certainly
playing it safe. Other poll-
sters reported a highly un-
certain outlook.
The British managers of
elections take what they
call canvasses, sometimes
twice in a campaign. But
when in 1950 I asked Her-
bert Morrison, the sharpest
political brain in the Labor
Party, what allowance they
made in these canvasses
for error, he said that they
assumed that from a quar-
ter to a third of the people
canvassed were not telling
the truth.
*
I hate to go on record fa-
voring a fib, but if ever ly-
ing is justified, it is when
some fellow asks what, to a
proud citizen, should be a
strictly private matter.
But when the pollsters
get away from asking a
simple choice between per-
sonalities and take meas-
urements of what people
think about issues and mat-
ters of more or less scien-
tific fact, the whole matter
becomes absurdly mislead-
ing.
A prize example has
come from George Gallup's
American Institute of Pub-
lic Opinion since the Stas-
sen episode. It has to do
with the President's health.
One of the three questions
was this:
"From what you've
heard-or read, what's your
best guess-will President
Eisenhower likely have an-
other stomach operation in
the next four years, or
not?"
First, let us pass over
with as much charity as
possible the execrable
English in this question.
Let us even overlook the
fact that President Eisen-
hower didn't have a "stom-
ach" operation. Perhaps
when ignorance is address-
ing ignorance, these mat-
ters of style and fact are ir-
relevant.
But the Gallup statement
that accompanied this re-
lease is incorrect. Gallup
says that "with doctors
themselves disagree-
ing over the probability of
recurrence of ileitis," etc.
The fact is that any doc-
tor whose opinion is worth
anything would qualify
such a statement of opin-
ion. So far as I have seen,
the doctors who were pres-
ent at the operation and
thus who know the facts
do not disagree at all.
*
Some weeks ago I pub-
lished in one of these arti-
cles the facts concerning re-
currence, as shown in two
exhaustive surveys of the
medical history of cases at
the Mayo Clinic and at Mt.
Sinai Hospital, New York.
The important fact that
emerged from those medi-
cal articles and which I
stated in my piece is that
recurrence is high—around
50%—in young people but
almost nil in people as old
as the President. I cannot
expect that Dr. Gallup
takes the trouble to read
medical literature.
The cream of the jest is
in the answers to the ques-
tion. It seems that four
times as many Democrats
"guess" that the President
will have another "stom-
ach" operation as do Re-
publicans.
Perhaps this pessimistic
attitude on the part of Dem-
ocrats concerning the fu-
ture is inspired by the luck
they have had with the
health of Presidents in the
past. Perhaps it is because
they have failed to read as
much medical literature as
have the Republicans.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.