ENGLAND'S
LEADER
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Plenty will be said about
Harold Macmillan's atti-
tude on foreign policy. He
will get on well with Pres-
ident Eisenhower. His
mother was an American—
if that means anything.
Dulles likes him and he
likes Dulles. His stand was
with Eden on intervention
in Egypt but his capacity
to extricate himself from
that awkward position on
foreign policy should be
adequate. In short, his se-
lection should greatly im-
prove Anglo-American re-
lations.

In domestic policies he
has been a better spokes-
man for what is called in
Britain "the new con-
servatism" than was his
predecessor. Moreover, his
mastery of economic prob-
lems seems to be more
comprehensive than was
Churchill's. The great war
Prime Minister was never
very explicit on economic
affairs except that he
stood with those Conserva-
tives who were willing to
accept a large portion of
the Liberal-Labor welfare
state and still resist a full
dose of Socialism.

*

In 1947, after Attlee's La-
bor government had been
laboring with only slight
success to get the British
economy on its feet, Mac-
millan made a prophetic
statement on Socialism:
"The so-called Labor
Party—the vast mass of
whose supporters are
sound trade unionists and
solid citizens—has been
captured by a few Socialist
intellectuals, those clever
men in every age who are
always wrong. But the
rank and file are not So-
cialists at all . . . What will
cure them? What will be
their danger signal? I will
tell you. The proof of the
pudding is in the eating.
There will be no better
antidote to the Socialist
poison than a few years
of Socialist govern-
ment . . ."

In three years the hand-
writing was on the wall in
the 1950 election. In 1951
the Attlee government fell.
And with the coming of
Conservative stability the
progress of the British
economy was remarkable.
His view of the respon-
sibility of a Conservative
government is not un-
like President Eisenhow-
er's "New Republicanism."

*

"Our principles are
based upon a view of hu-
man society as an organic,
and therefore growing and
developing structure . . .
Against state capitalism or
—Socialism, we shall put for-
ward partnership in indus-
try; a new industrial char-
ter; a new conception of
the appropriate role of
government, capital, man-
agement and labor. Against
state ownership of land
and homes and all the
means of production, we
shall put forward the
democratic claim to the
distribution, not the fur-
ther concentration, of
wealth. Against the all-
embracing powers of the
state to intervene in every
part of the citizen's life,
we shall put forward the
balanced rights and duties
of each individual and
family."

However, in contrast
with the Eisenhower "New
Republicanism" this posi-
tion shows a considerable
surrender of the individ-
ual's responsibility. But
Macmillan was speaking as
a political leader against
the background of a na-
tional economy much
weaker than our own and
much further demoralized
by the creeping invasion of
collectivism.

*

As Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer in 1956, however,
he demonstrated more
courage in resisting the
clamor for inflation than
the Eisenhower adminis-
tration is showing at this
moment. Over here the
Federal Reserve Board is
resisting the efforts of the
administration to loosen
the strings of credit. Over
there last year Macmillan
not only gave a boost to
the bank rate and tighten-
ing of consumer credit con-
trols but announced new
cuts in government spend-
ing. In this respect our
Washington administration
might well learn a sound
lesson.

Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.