The heavy increase in
the kinds and amounts of
welfare payments in the
President's budget esti-
mates for the fiscal year
beginning next July is a
clear indication of how
rapidly we are approach-
ing the pattern of the wel-
fare state as it is under-
stood in Great Britain.
Over there it has been
understood from the early
days of the Fabian Society
(the forerunner of the
Labor Party) that welfare
was to be approached as
an all-inclusive matter.
In our Federal expendi-
tures the slice of the pie
given over to "welfare"
grows and grows. The new
1958 budget estimates pro-
vide for $185,000,000 for
school construction, with
new "obligational authori-
ty" of $451,000,000. For
what are called "labor and
welfare" programs the
amount is $3,500,000,000. In
addition, there will be more
than 10 billion dollars to
be paid out of the Federal
social insurance and re-
tirement trust funds.
For health programs the
estimate is $607,000,000,
which is $106,000,000 more
than in the present year.
For aid to hospital con-
struction there is another
$100,000,000. There is an-
other item, for "commu-
nity waste facilities,"
amounting to $62,000,000.
Grants for "public assist-
ance" are estimated to in-
crease $100,000,000 to a to-
tal of $1,700,000,000 in 1958.
There is also an unnamed
amount to be unacted to
fight juvenile delinquency.
All this is in addition to
the huge veterans' benefit
program, most of which is
a welfare program directed
at a very large proportion
of our population, about
22,000,000 beneficiaries.
That will cost something
like 5 billion dollars—up
$176,000,000.
A gentleman who, the
"inside dope" factory as-
sures us, is one of the
President's top social phi-
losophers, Arthur Larson,
now director of the U.S.
Information Agency and
until recently Undersecre-
tary of Labor, made this
statement in a lecture in
November:
"To me, the final objec-
tive of our exertions in all
these fields has always
been very clear and very
simple. It is a complete,
adequate and co-ordinated
system of income insurance
covering all the major exi-
gencies, occupational and
nonoccupational, that stop
wages—death, disability,
unemployment and age—
for all persons for whom
such coverage is adminis-
tratively possible."
Note the emergence of a
new slogan, "income in-
surance."
Note also that Mr. Lar-
son sees no difficulties in
the way of providing in-
surance for all incomes ex-
cept mere administrative
problems. Apparently he
assumes that the economy
can afford whatever is de-
sired.
For two groups in our
population, great strides
have already been made
toward providing "income
insurance." The guaran-
teed annual wage provides
such insurance for certain
union members. A great
step toward the complete
achievement of the guar-
antee is the "supplemen-
tary unemployment pay-
ments" provided by some
industries. The farmer's
income has a floor and the
Brannan plan would have
guaranteed an income
equal to that enjoyed in
the more prosperous years
of the war.
The range of benefits
contemplated by advocates
of complete welfarism ap-
pears in a draft treaty
worked up by the Interna-
tional Labor Organization
in 1951. It is called "mini-
mum standards of social
security." The items are:
1—Unemployment in-
surance.
2—Medical benefits.
3—Sickness allowances.
4—Old-age pensions or
allowances.
5—Workmen's compen-
sation.
6—Family allowances.
7—Maternity benefits or
allowances.
8—Disability pensions or
allowances.
9—Survivors' pensions
or allowances.
The President's budget
indicates how rapidly we
are approaching this ob-
jective.