RAYMOND MOLEY:
False Philosophy in
Education Aid Bill
In making his exit from
the Washington scene,
Marion B. Folsom, erst-
while Secretary of Health,
Education and Welfare,
urged the passage of the
aid-to-education plan
which he sponsored, say-
ing that it is devised as a
system of "lures and baits
in the form of matching
fund grants" to induce
States to spend more.
This, then, is the phi-
losophy behind the bill
based upon the ridiculous
theory that when you give
someone something he
will thereupon go out and
buy the same. I wonder
whether, as Folsom re-
sumes his old job at East-
man Kodak, he will pro-
pose giving away cameras
in order to get people to
buy cameras. If so, I ima-
gine that the board of di-
rectors would wonder
whether six years in
Washington had not im-
paired the judgment of
their onetime treasurer.
The hot breath of the
coming election should not
prompt aid-to-education
legislation to be rushed
through in these dog days
at the end of the session.
★
The bills before both
Senate and House (which
differ little except in
amount) are a hodgepodge
of assorted items gathered
together by the Folsom
department to "do some-
thing" about education be-
cause of the Sputnik scare.
Congressional semantics
designates such legislation
with the term "omnibus."
This would be a base in-
dictment of a useful and
practical mode of trans-
portation. A far more de-
scriptive term in this in-
stance would be "moving
van," which brings to
mind a conglomerate as-
sortment of bedsprings,
mattresses, chairs, bu-
reaus, kitchen stoves and
washboards inside and
tricycles, scooters, cribs,
and skis stacked on be-
hind. Indeed, the figure
of speech is not inappro-
priate, for these, too, are
"aid" to keep youngsters
from worry about the se-
rious business of school-
ing.
The House bill, for ex-
ample, provides for schol-
arship loans, laboratory
trappings, "audivisual"
materials, foreign lan-
guage institutes, institutes
to discuss scientific test-
ing of students and statis-
tical processes. All these
under the guise of a
wholly phony title, "Na-
tional Defense Education
Act."
★
But most of this has no
possible bearing on the
cold war. The scholarships
and loans are available to
all, the needy and the un-
needy alike. They are for
any sort of study, not lim-
ited to science.
It ought to be noted
that Title VII of the bill,
to give $84,000,000 for
"testing," is added despite
the fact that the U.S. Of-
fice of Education as well
as many sound educators
have testified that there is
still great confusion as to
what "aptitude" test is a
valid means of measure-
ment.
Until someone has
worked out a valid testing
method, it would seem
somewhat absurd to subsi-
dize on a large scale the
doubtful tests already in
existence.
Finally, there is good
evidence, including the
opinion of the Asociation
of American Colleges, that
our colleges already have
adequate means for schol-
arships and loans. The
sudden plunge of the great
sums proposed to be pro-
vided by the Federal gov-
ernment would tend to dis-
courage private givers.
Moreoever, on the gen-
eral subject of Federal aid,
there is the irrefutable
consideration that aid
means ultimate control.
This sort of bill would put
the Federal bureuacracy
deeply into the business of
education.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.