RAYMOND MOLEY:
Political Study of
Young Executives
This writer has fre-
quently had occasion to
criticize sharply the ac-
tivities of the Robert
Hutchins Fund for the Re-
public.
On this present occasion
he is most happy to greet
with considerable satisfac-
tion a new study under the
fund's auspices. This anal-
ysis concerns itself with a
very large group in what
it calls the "middle middle
class." This group, it esti-
mates, consists of 25 to
30% of the American peo-
ple who have, either volun-
tarily or for other reasons,
abandoned political life
and — I might add — re-
duced themselves to a lev-
el of second-class citizens.
★
This study was made by
Prof. Andrew Hacker of
Cornell University.
Prof. Hacker's estimate
of the size of this group is,
I believe, altogether too
high. But considering the
capacity and talent of its
members, its abstention
from political life loses for
a much greater number
the leadership essential in
a republican society.
That greater number
comprises a big majority
of what, instead of using
the non-American word
"class," I have long since
called the "middle inter-
ests." The result has been
the dominance of organ-
ized minorities — "hard
cores," as it were, capable
of controlling many areas
of political life and fast
becoming the prevailing
element in Congress and
State Legislatures.
The Hacker study has to
do with younger corpora-
tion executives, technical
people, salesmen, and the
like who are employed by
corporations having na-
tional operations and mar-
kets. Perhaps because of
their fear of disapproval
from the higher-ups in
their companies, they take
a certain regrettable pride
in being "nonpolitical" or,
to use a much-abused
word, "independent."
They believe, or say they
believe, that politics is bad
for their business.
★
Many of these are casu-
al in their relationship
with the suburban com-
munities in which they
have their legal residence
and in which they raise
their children and pay
their local taxes.
Prof. Hacker calls them
"corporate citizens," as
their bounties and future
security are rooted in the
paternalistic corporations
with which they are con-
nected.
★
Perhaps I am putting
my own interpretation on
the study, but in most
cases these big corpora-
tions have placed their po-
litical interests in the
hands of their Washington
representatives who, in
their contacts with law-
makers, believe they are
protecting their compa-
nies' interests. But since
the rise of powerful labor
organizations which con-
centrate on politics at the
State and local level, the
legislators to whom these
Washington representa-
tives talk owe their elec-
tion to forces other than
the corporations.
I have not seen the en-
tire study and am depend-
ing upon a newspaper ac-
count. I believe, however,
that it should be added
that many big corpora-
tions are, at the highest
level, coming to realize
the political realities and
are not only removing the
barriers to political activ-
ity by their employees but
are encouraging their par-
ticipation.
In the same newspaper
in which the account of
Prof. Hacker's study is
printed, there appeared a
statement by a top execu-
tive of the Gulf Oil Corp.,
encouraging more politi-
cal participation by all
those related to the com-
pany. General Electric has
long followed the same
course. Many other big
concerns are stressing the
need.
★
What is needed is not
more activity by corpora-
tions themselves but en-
couragement and permis-
sion to the great numbers
of employees who can ca-
pably provide leadership
for the vast majority of
Americans in the average
incomes. These—the for-
gotten majority—are with-
out political leadership
now. They must pay the
greatest part of the taxes
which are levied and dissi-
pated by those legislators
who have been elected to
serve special and highly
organized minorities.
Herein is the way toward a
more representative gov-
ernment.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.