Pattern of Government Monopoly
Emerging in Columbia Basin
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
To those of us in the
East it may seem that
the troubles in the north-
western states over river
development are quite re-
mote from our interest.
We are perhaps too
much occupied with the
President's contest with
the congressional Demo-
crats, Russia, Berlin, and
who is going to run in
1960.
But what happens in
the Northwest is vital to
all of us. There is under
way a pattern of govern-
ment monopoly in elec-
tric power which may
well be imposed by Con-
gress everywhere, just as
the big bill now under
consideration for the
Columbia Basin is the
direct outgrowth of the
Tennessee Valley Au-
thority.
A government monopo-
ly in the power business
in a region so rich in
water would have reper-
cussions on every tax-
payer and business in the
United States. For a
monopolistic federal pow-
er supply means subsi-
dized electricity. And the
money for the subsidy
comes from all taxpayers.
Moreover, when mo-
nopolistic, subsidized
"cheap" power is used to
attract industry, that
source of employment and
wealth is drawn from oth-
er states as far removed
as Massachusetts, for ex-
ample. The sort of thing
brewing for the Columbia
Basin, which includes all
the tributaries of the
Columbia and affects
Washington, Oregon, Mon-
tana, Idaho, Utah and
Wyoming, is in fact a
disguised TVA.
It is also designed to be
imposed upon a region in
which there are already
public power agencies and
big private companies able
to supply power com-
petitively with other
states for any industries
which care to locate
there. If there be any
doubt about the prosperi-
ty of that region, we may
only note its growth in
population, labor force,
wealth, and living stand-
ards in comparison with
more slowly growing
states in the East.
The bill under considera-
tion is a modified version
of a measure originated
by Sen. Richard Neuber-
ger of Oregon. It is SB
1927. It would change the
Bonneville Power Admin-
istration to a Bonneville
Power Corp., which would
be a semi-autonomous
agency with little or no
control by Congress or the
President.
It would issue its own
bonds up to a certain
amount, and its board
would be appointed by
the President from among
people "who shall be per-
sons who profess a belief
in the feasibility and wis-
dom of this act." In both
respects—the issuance of
bonds for its own expan-
sion and this qualification
imposed for the members
of the board—the pattern
is the TVA.
In extended Senate
hearings on the Neu-
berger proposal, exceed-
ingly reasonable pleas
were made to bury the
long and now meaningless
contest between public
and private power and
recognize that as things
stand now, many private
and public power agencies
are already peacefully co-
existing in the Columbia
Basin. They are, in fact,
united to a degree in the
present Bonneville Power
Administration, which is a
general power pool.
The federal government
has already spent more
than $2 billion to develop
the water resources in
that area. What is needed
is comprehensive water
development to eliminate
pollution, to protect fish-
eries, and generally to
conserve the resources of
the great river and its
tributaries.
Private and public agen-
cies can and are willing
to work to that end. There
is no need further to
press the issue between
federal and local develop-
ment. Anyhow, in the
foreseeable future—say by
1975—coal and atomic
energy will be supplant-
ing hydropower even in
that region. A federal
monopoly would serve to
frustrate, not further, the
interests of the Northwest
and the United States
generally.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.