Sen. Kennedy's Secondary Boycott
Bill Would Threaten the Economy

It is a pity that so much
talk centers on Sen. Ken-
nedy's religion to the neg-
lect of other items which
might provide a judgment
of the candidate's record.
His plans to capture the
nomination have over-
looked nothing that might
provide bait for minority
groups. His Senate bill on
medical care for the eld-
erly is a replica of that of
Representative Forand.
And in the Senate he
has sponsored a bill which
parallels the Thompson
bill, which is before the
House and which would
emasculate both the Taft-
Hartley Act and last
year's Landrum - Griffin
legislation.
★
The Kennedy-Thomp-
son proposal is called the
"common situs" bill. It
would, so far as the build-
ing industry is concerned,
destroy the most impor-
tant part of the Landrum-
Griffin Act, which, inci-
dentally, Sen. Kennedy
supported. So, incidental-
ly, did Sen. Humphrey.
The Kennedy-Thomp-
son bills would legalize
secondary boycotts at the
site of building construc-
tion by permitting a
union which has a labor
dispute with one building
contractor to picket all
other contractors and sub-
BY RAYMOND MOLEY
contractors when they
happen to be working on
the same building project.
This could be done when
all such nonparticipants
in the dispute have per-
fectly good labor relations
and firm contracts.
Obviously, such picket-
ing would stop every as-
pect of the construction
Sen. Kennedy
and involve great added
costs and loss of wages by
workers not involved in
the dispute.
Since any sizable build-
ing project involves
scores of contractors of-
ten hundreds and thou-
sands of miles removed
from the scene includ-
ing railroads, trucks,
ships and airlines the
effect upon the economy
of the country would be
vital.
The construction indus-
try is the largest in the
nation. Last year it in-
volved $73 billion, or
about 15% of the gross
national product.
Consider, therefore,
what this would do to the
great promises of Kenne-
dy and others of a great-
ly increased national
product. Consider, also,
this weapon placed in the
hands of every union with
any part, however small,
involved in a construction
project, even in vital de-
fense construction.
★
The only way by which
construction could go on
without major interrup-
tions and thus provide
such a large part of the
national product would be
substantially to turn con-
struction over to every
union involved. And then,
if they failed to agree
among themselves, any
dissenter would stop the
work of all the others.
Apparently, nothing is
too much to pay for a
Presidential nomination -
even the economic pros-
perity of the nation, the
national defense, the se-
curity of savings and in-
vestments and the integ-
rity of the American dol-
lar.
Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.